docs: added guide for available components for contributors to gatsbyjs.org (#18822)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/contributing/docs-and-website-components.md

---
title: Docs and Website Components
tableOfContentsDepth: 2
---

import LayerModel from "../../www/src/components/layer-model"
import HorizontalNavList from "../../www/src/components/horizontal-nav-list"
import Breadcrumb from "../../www/src/components/docs-breadcrumb"
import { itemListContributing } from "../../www/src/utils/sidebar/item-list"
import TableOfContents from "../../www/src/components/docs-table-of-contents"

> <div onClick={console.log({ itemListContributing, props })} />

Reviewer: Should this DIV be in here, since it isn't accessible? (I'm wondering if it was leftover from debugging?)

> The Gatsbyjs.org site has a handful of components that have already been developed to facilitate writing new content for the blog and the docs. There are also components that are good to be aware that help organize and lay out content in various pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Gatsbyjs.org site has a handful of components that have been developed to facilitate writing new content for the blog and the docs. There are also components that help organize and lay out content in various pages across the website.
```

> This guide lists what components are available and explains how to use them. You can also refer to the [code for this page on GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/docs/contributing/docs-and-website-components.md) to see to how each component can be used, because they are all embedded here!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide documents what components are available and explains how to use them. You can also refer to the [code for this page on GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/docs/contributing/docs-and-website-components.md) to see to how each component can be used, because they are all embedded here!
```

Less confusing when above the Guide List component...

> This guide lists what components are available and explains how to use them. You can also refer to the [code for this page](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/docs/contributing/docs-and-website-components.md) to see to how each component can be used, because each is embedded on this page!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide lists what components are available and explains how to use them. You can also refer to the [code for this page on GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/docs/contributing/docs-and-website-components.md) to see to how each component can be used, because they are all embedded here!
```

> Information about authoring in markdown and styling components on the site is also listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information about authoring in Markdown and styling components on the site is also listed.
```

## Globally available components

A variety of components have been written to help with formatting code and content across the blog and the docs and don't need to be imported.

---

> ### Guide list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Guide List
```
This is a proper noun, so it should probably be capitalized.

> The `<GuideList />` is a component that renders a list of child docs nested below the current doc in the site's information architecture. It is often used on overview pages like the [Headless CMS](/docs/headless-cms/) guide where many other pages are nested below it, to show what a docs section contains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<GuideList />` is a component that renders an h2 heading and a list of links to child docs nested below the current doc in the site's information architecture. It is often used on overview pages like the [Headless CMS](/docs/headless-cms/) guide where many other pages are nested below it to show what a docs section contains.
```

> The `<GuideList />` is a component that renders a list of docs nested below the current doc. It is often used on overview pages like the [Headless CMS](/docs/headless-cms/) page where many other pages are nested below it, to show what a doc contains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<GuideList />` is a component that renders a list of child docs nested below the current doc in the site's information architecture. It is often used on overview pages like the [Headless CMS](/docs/headless-cms/) guide where many other pages are nested below it, to show what a docs section contains.
```

#### Usage

> It takes one prop:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Guide List component takes one prop:
```

> - `slug` - the value of which is already available on every page by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `slug` - the value of which is already available on every page's context on Gatsbyjs.org by default
```
Adding extra explicitness in case people want to copy/port these components, so they know there's more involved than just the component file itself.

The component can be used like this:

```markdown:title=docs/headless-cms
---
title: Headless CMS
---

Overview information about headless CMSs...

<GuideList slug={props.slug} /> // highlight-line
```

#### Sample

> And when rendered in a page, looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When rendered in a page, the Guide List looks like this:
```

<GuideList slug="/docs/headless-cms/" />

---

> ### Egghead embed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Egghead Embed
```

> To embed content from [Egghead](https://egghead.io) on the site, there is an `<EggheadEmbed />` component that adds an iframe with the video inline with other content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To embed video content from [Egghead](https://egghead.io) on the site, there is an `<EggheadEmbed />` component that adds an iframe with the video inline with other content.
```

#### Usage

> It takes two props:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Egghead Embed component takes two props:
```

- `lessonLink` - the URL of the lesson from Egghead
- `lessonTitle` - the name of the lesson that is used to add more information to the embedded iframe.

It can be used like this:

```markdown:title=docs/using-gatsby-image
---
title: Using Gatsby Image
---

This is how you use `gatsby-image`...

<!-- highlight-start -->

<EggheadEmbed
  lessonLink="https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-use-gatsby-image-s-graphql-fragments-for-blurred-up-and-traced-svg-images"
  lessonTitle="Use gatsby-image's GraphQL fragments for blurred-up and traced SVG images"
/>

<!-- highlight-end -->
```

#### Sample

Rendered, it looks like this:

<EggheadEmbed
  lessonLink="https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-use-gatsby-image-s-graphql-fragments-for-blurred-up-and-traced-svg-images"
  lessonTitle="Use gatsby-image's GraphQL fragments for blurred-up and traced SVG images"
/>

---

> ### Pull quote

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pull Quote
```

> The `<Pullquote />` component is used to call out a quote in the blog. It applies borders and styles that make a section of the content pop out to readers.

Reviewer: Is this component available everywhere? I'm wondering if this should be listed here or in the "other available components" section.

Author: It is technically available everywhere (ie it's used in this file without being imported), but we only ever use it in the blog.

The `<Pullquote />` component is used to call out a quote in the blog. It applies borders and styles that make a section of the content pop out to readers.

#### Usage

> It takes one prop, and uses the children it wraps to populate its inner content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pull Quote component takes one prop, and uses the children it wraps to populate its inner content:
```

It is used like this:

```markdown:title=blog/new-announcement.md
---
title: Big News!
author: Jay Gatsby
---

<!-- highlight-start -->

> <Pullquote citation="Winston Churchill">

Reviewer: The border around this pullquote is overlapping the TOC (which probably answers my question above):

<img width="845" alt="pullquote example from Winston Churchill" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1045233/67515227-4077ba80-f66c-11e9-8330-8c9508e94739.png">

Author: Yeah, do you think we should not include it or style it to shrink it down in this example?

Reviewer: I think including it is a good idea, and solving the issue with the TOC could fix it for usage later on. Does wrapping it in an element help, at all? Or we could introduce some CSS to make it render better in docs?

Author: Wrapping it requires new styles on the parent container, since it's a component I figured adding a prop would make sense to override the extending width and force it to match the parent container width, I named the prop `narrow` which is either true or false.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21114044/67780562-e2602400-fa2b-11e9-917b-3bda09d0d53f.png)

Reviewer: Sounds great!

Reviewer 2: i would avoid additional options, because if someone use it in docs then he has always remember to set the option, and this is need to be documented etc.

more solutions:

a) how about that this is always fit to the container width? 

b) or only between > 1000px and <1200px
- the setting is to be outside the container width when it is only above >1000px - but the TOC becomes visible at >1200px

c) how about: if this only is more wide when it is an blog post, you can distinct it from a doc if it is an child of `<section class='post-body'>`

<!-- highlight-start -->
<Pullquote citation="Winston Churchill">
  To improve is to change, so to be perfect is to have changed often.
</Pullquote>
<!-- highlight-end -->
```

#### Sample

Rendered, the component looks like this:

<Pullquote citation="Winston Churchill">
  To improve is to change, so to be perfect is to have changed often.
</Pullquote>

---

## Other available components

> Other less commonly used components aren't globally available, but can imported at the top of a markdown file and used in other docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other less commonly used components aren't globally available, but can imported at the top of a Markdown file and used in other docs.
```

---

> ### Layer model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Layer Model
```

> The `<LayerModel />` was made to help explain concepts of how Gatsby works at a high level. It conceptually breaks Gatsby into different layers and shows how data is pulled, aggregated, and eventually rendered as an app. It's used on pages to help explain and visual how Gatsby works at different levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<LayerModel />` was made to help explain concepts of how Gatsby works at a high level. It conceptually breaks Gatsby into different layers and shows how data is pulled, aggregated, and eventually rendered as an app. It's used on docs pages to help explain how Gatsby works at different levels.
```

#### Usage

> The component takes one prop:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Layer Model component takes one prop:
```

- `initialLayer` - defaults to `Content`, can be one of `Content`, `Build`, `Data`, `View`, `App` that correspond to the different layers

```markdown
---
title: GraphQL Concepts in Gatsby
---

import LayerModel from "../../www/src/components/layer-model"

To help understand how GraphQL works in Gatsby...

<LayerModel initialLayer="Data" />
```

#### Sample

When used, it looks like this:

<LayerModel initialLayer="Data" />

> ### Horizontal navigation list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Horizontal Navigation List
```

> The `<HorizontalNavList />` was made for the [Glossary](/docs/glossary/), and renders a list of links to subheadings on the page in a horizontal format. Because of it's specific use case, it isn't made globally available and can be imported if it's needed on other pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<HorizontalNavList />` was made for the [Glossary](/docs/glossary/), and renders a list of links to alphabetical subheadings on the page in a horizontal format. Because of its specific use case, it isn't made globally available but can be imported if needed on other pages.
```

#### Usage

> It takes two props:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Horizontal Nav List component takes two props:
```

> - `items` - an array of strings for items to render and wrap with a `<Link />` to subheadings

Reviewer: We should say some more details about how the links work (internal links matching IDs automatically applied to headings with [gatsby-remark-autolink-headers](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-remark-autolink-headers/)?)

- `slug` - which is provided in the props of the page by default
- `items` - an array of strings for items to render and wrap with a `<Link />` to subheadings

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
---
title: Glossary
---

import HorizontalNavList from "../../www/src/components/horizontal-nav-list.js"

The glossary defines key vocabulary...

---

<HorizontalNavList
  slug={props.slug}
  items={["guide-list", "egghead-embed", "pull-quote", "layer-model", "horizontal-navigation-list"]}
/>
```

#### Sample

Rendered, it looks like this:

<HorizontalNavList
items={[
"guide-list",
"egghead-embed",
"pull-quote",
"layer-model",
"horizontal-navigation-list",
]}
slug={props.slug}
/>

### Breadcrumb

The `<Breadcrumb />` component is used in layout files to display the hierarchy of pages a user is currently browsing on.

#### Usage

> It takes one prop:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Breadcrumb component takes one prop:
```

- `itemList` - an object comprised of the docs hierarchical structure

> 

Reviewer: We could link to an example in the source?

- `itemList` - an object comprised of the docs hierarchical structure

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```javascript
import Breadcrumb from "../../www/src/components/docs-breadcrumb"

<Breadcrumb location={props.location} itemList={itemList} />

> ```

Reviewer: We also need to document the `breadcrumbTitle` that goes into sidebar links files.

#### Sample

Rendered, it looks like this:

<Breadcrumb
location={{
    pathname: "/contributing/docs-and-website-components/",
  }}
itemList={itemListContributing}
/>

---

### Table of Contents

> The `<TableOfContents />` component is used to render a list of subheaders from a doc page and include links to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<TableOfContents />` component is used to render a list of subheaders from a docs page and automatically provide deep links to them.
```

> To alter the title of a doc that is displayed in the Breadcrumb component, a `breadcrumbTitle` is supported as a key in the [sidebar YAML files](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/www/src/data/sidebars). It is commonly used to provide an abbreviated version of a doc's title, e.g. shortening "Adding a Custom webpack Config" to "webpack Config".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Optional `breadcrumbTitle` entries in sidebar files

To alter the title of a doc that is displayed in the Breadcrumb component, a `breadcrumbTitle` is supported as a key in the [sidebar YAML files](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/www/src/data/sidebars). It is commonly used to provide an abbreviated version of a doc's title when displayed next to its parent page title, e.g. shortening "Adding a Custom webpack Config" to "webpack Config".
```

I feel like a usage example would be helpful here.

> The `<TableOfContents />` component is used to render a list of subheaders from a docs page and automatically provide deep links to them.

Reviewer: Same as the breadcrumb: I think a link to an example in the source would be helpful.

          items: [
            {
              url: "#layer-model",
              title: "Layer model",
            },
            {
              url: "#horizontal-navigation-list",
              title: "Horizontal navigation list",
            },
            {
              url: "#breadcrumb",
              title: "Breadcrumb",
            },
            {
              url: "#table-of-contents",
              title: "Table of Contents",
            },
          ],
        },
        {
          url: "#writing-content-in-markdown",
          title: "Writing content in markdown",
          items: [
            {
              url: "#code-blocks",
              title: "Code blocks",
            },
          ],
        },
        {
          url: "#styling-components-on-gatsbyjsorg-with-theme-ui",
          title: "Styling components on Gatsbyjs.org with Theme-UI",
          items: [
            {
              url: "#design-tokens",
              title: "Design tokens",
            },
            {
              url: "#the-sx-prop",
              title: "The sx prop",
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    },
  }}
/>

---

> ## Writing content in markdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Writing content in Markdown
```

> New docs and blog posts are added to the [docs](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/docs/) folder inside the gatsby repository. They are stored as `.md` (Markdown) or `.mdx` (MDX) files and can be written using Markdown, or using inline JSX thanks to MDX. Writing in markdown will output tags that are styled according to [Gatsby's design guidelines](/guidelines/color/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New docs and blog posts are added to the [docs](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/docs/) folder inside the Gatsby repository. They are stored as `.md` (Markdown) or `.mdx` (MDX) files and can be written using Markdown, or using inline JSX thanks to MDX. Writing in Markdown will output tags that are styled according to [Gatsby's design guidelines](/guidelines/color/).
```

You can read more about writing in Markdown in the [Markdown syntax guide](/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax).

### Code blocks

> Code can be formatted using normal markdown syntax, but the docs site has additional enhancements that can be used thanks to various Gatsby plugins that aren't all native Markdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code can be formatted using regular Markdown syntax, but the docs site has additional enhancements that can be used thanks to various Gatsby plugins that aren't all native Markdown.
```

#### Usage

> Code blocks are wrapped in 3 backticks. A language can be added immediately after the first set of back ticks to provide syntax highlighting for the language. A title of the file can be added after the language. Line highlighting can be included in the code block by commenting `highlight-line`, or `highlight-start` followed by a `highlight-end`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code blocks are wrapped in 3 backticks. A language can be added immediately after the first set of back ticks to provide syntax highlighting for the language. A `title` of the file can be added after the language. Line highlighting can be included in the code block by commenting `highlight-line`, or `highlight-start` followed by a `highlight-end`.
```
Could we add common languages so people know what the conventions are (`sh`, `javascript`, `markdown`, etc.)?

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
````
```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`
      ],
    },
  },
]
```
````

#### Sample

The above code block is rendered like this:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`
      ],
    },
  },
]
```

Line numbers and line highlighting can be added to code blocks as well, and is explained in detail in the [`gatsby-remark-prismjs` README](/packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/?=remark#optional-add-line-highlighting-styles).

## Styling components on Gatsbyjs.org with Theme-UI

> Styles on the site are applied using [Theme-UI](https://theme-ui.com/), which allows for themeing across the site based off of design tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Styles on the site are applied using [Theme-UI](https://theme-ui.com/), which allows for theming across the site based on design tokens (also called variables).
```

### Design tokens

> Design tokens are used to limit the number of colors and style attributes that are applied to components throughout the site. By limiting the styles that can be applied, the site stays consistent with the guidelines for color, typography, spacing, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Design tokens are used to consolidate the number of colors and style attributes that are applied to components throughout the site. By limiting the styles that can be applied, the site stays consistent with the guidelines for color, typography, spacing, etc.
```

import HorizontalNavList from "../../www/src/components/horizontal-nav-list"
import Breadcrumb from "../../www/src/components/docs-breadcrumb"
import { itemListContributing } from "../../www/src/utils/sidebar/item-list"
import TableOfContents from "../../www/src/components/docs-table-of-contents"

The Gatsbyjs.org site has a handful of components that have been developed to facilitate writing new content for the blog and the docs. There are also components that help organize and lay out content in various pages across the website.

This guide documents what components are available and explains how to use them. You can also refer to the [code for this page on GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/docs/contributing/docs-and-website-components.md) to see to how each component can be used, because they are all embedded here!

Information about authoring in Markdown and styling components on the site is also listed.

## Globally available components

A variety of components have been written to help with formatting code and content across the blog and the docs and don't need to be imported.

---

### Guide List

> The `<GuideList />` is a component that renders an h2 heading and a list of links to child docs nested below the current doc in the site's information architecture. It is often used on overview pages like the [Headless CMS](/docs/headless-cms/) guide where many other pages are nested below it to show what a docs section contains.

Reviewer: Good idea!

- `lessonTitle` - the name of the lesson that is used to add more information to the embedded iframe.

It can be used like this:

```markdown:title=docs/using-gatsby-image
---
title: Using Gatsby Image
---

This is how you use `gatsby-image`...

<!-- highlight-start -->

<EggheadEmbed
  lessonLink="https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-use-gatsby-image-s-graphql-fragments-for-blurred-up-and-traced-svg-images"
  lessonTitle="Use gatsby-image's GraphQL fragments for blurred-up and traced SVG images"
/>

<!-- highlight-end -->
```

#### Sample

Rendered, it looks like this:

<EggheadEmbed
  lessonLink="https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-use-gatsby-image-s-graphql-fragments-for-blurred-up-and-traced-svg-images"
  lessonTitle="Use gatsby-image's GraphQL fragments for blurred-up and traced SVG images"
/>

---

### Pull Quote

The `<Pullquote />` component is used to call out a quote in the blog. It applies borders and styles that make a section of the content pop out to readers.

#### Usage

The Pull Quote component takes two optional props, and uses the children it wraps to populate its inner content:

- `citation` - the reference of the person or entity that made the quoted statement

> - `narrow` - styles the pull quote by removing the left and right negative margins, keeping it inside the parent container, this prop is not used in the blog to help the quote stand out, but could be used in docs where a quote is relevant to constrain the quote to the width of the doc (without extending into other sections of the layout)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `narrow` - styles the pull quote by removing the left and right negative margins, keeping it inside the parent container. This prop is not used in the blog to help the quote stand out, but could be used in docs where it's necessary to keep content from overlapping with other sections of the layout, such as the Table of Contents.
```

#### Usage

The Horizontal Nav List component takes two props:

- `slug` - which is provided in the props of the page by default
- `items` - an array of strings for items to render and wrap with a `<Link />` to subheadings

The docs on Gatsbyjs.org use the [gatsby-remark-autolink-headers](/packages/gatsby-remark-autolink-headers/) plugin to automatically apply hover links to heading tags across docs pages. Because it automatically creates links to subheadings on pages like the glossary, the Horizontal Nav List can supply matching links (like `"guide-list"` which would align with the automatically created link at `/docs/docs-and-website-components#guide-list`).

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
---
title: Glossary
---

import HorizontalNavList from "../../www/src/components/horizontal-nav-list.js"

The glossary defines key vocabulary...

---

<HorizontalNavList
  slug={props.slug}
  items={["guide-list", "egghead-embed", "pull-quote", "layer-model", "horizontal-navigation-list"]}
/>
```

> 

Reviewer 2: maybe also nice to see here the glossary Nav List?

https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/d545b647f3291b15e1e1693adfe6064a36bc357d/docs/docs/glossary.md#L10-L13

Reviewer: That's what I thought initially, and we certainly could....but the existing usage is more consistent with the current page as the glossary one wouldn't link to any relevant headings.

Reviewer 2: yes, but maybe as an small note about the split ;) 

```markdown
An alphabet glossary can be generated with `items={"ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ".split("")}`
```

Author: I thought about that too but felt like it made it a little harder to see what the prop was doing. If someone looks at the component on the glossary page they can still find that way too use it, but it's just a bit trickier of a way to see how the prop is used since they have to know what `split` does with this example.

- `itemList` - an object comprised of the docs hierarchical structure

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```javascript
import Breadcrumb from "../../www/src/components/docs-breadcrumb"

<Breadcrumb location={props.location} itemList={itemList} />
```

_You can also refer to [an example of usage of the Breadcrumb in the Gatsbyjs.org source code](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/1d65ce051967dda5c4a89da920fc34692524e237/www/src/templates/template-docs-markdown.js#L82)_

#### Optional `breadcrumbTitle` entries in sidebar files

To alter the title of a doc that is displayed in the Breadcrumb component, a `breadcrumbTitle` is supported as a key in the [sidebar YAML files](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/www/src/data/sidebars). It is commonly used to provide an abbreviated version of a doc's title when displayed next to its parent page title, e.g. shortening "Adding a Custom webpack Config" to "webpack Config".

#### Sample

Rendered, it looks like this:

<Breadcrumb
location={{
    pathname: "/contributing/docs-and-website-components/",
  }}
itemList={itemListContributing}
/>

---

### Table of Contents

> The `<TableOfContents />` component is used to render a list of subheaders from a docs page and automatically provide deep links to them.

Reviewer 2: should there also be a note how to disable this TOC in the frontmatter in markdown?

Reviewer: Yes, I agree -- I thought I commented about the same thing, not sure if the comment went into the ether.

          title: "Other available components",
          items: [
            {
              url: "#layer-model",
              title: "Layer model",
            },
            {
              url: "#horizontal-navigation-list",
              title: "Horizontal navigation list",
            },
            {
              url: "#breadcrumb",
              title: "Breadcrumb",
            },
            {
              url: "#table-of-contents",
              title: "Table of Contents",
            },
          ],
        },
        {
          url: "#writing-content-in-markdown",
          title: "Writing content in markdown",
          items: [
            {
              url: "#code-blocks",
              title: "Code blocks",
            },
          ],
        },
        {
          url: "#styling-components-on-gatsbyjsorg-with-theme-ui",
          title: "Styling components on Gatsbyjs.org with Theme-UI",
          items: [
            {
              url: "#design-tokens",
              title: "Design tokens",
            },
            {
              url: "#the-sx-prop",
              title: "The sx prop",
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    },
  }}
/>

> 

Reviewer: Here's something I ran into today, how do you turn off the Table of Contents widget in a given Markdown doc? That seems more likely of a scenario than working with it directly.

---

## Writing content in Markdown

New docs and blog posts are added to the [docs](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/docs/) folder inside the Gatsby repository. They are stored as `.md` (Markdown) or `.mdx` (MDX) files and can be written using Markdown, or using inline JSX thanks to MDX. Writing in Markdown will output tags that are styled according to [Gatsby's design guidelines](/guidelines/color/).

You can read more about writing in Markdown in the [Markdown syntax guide](/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax).

### Code blocks

Code can be formatted using regular Markdown syntax, but the docs site has additional enhancements that can be used thanks to various Gatsby plugins that aren't all native Markdown.

#### Usage

Code blocks are wrapped in 3 backticks. A language can be added immediately after the first set of back ticks to provide syntax highlighting for the language. A `title` of the file can be added after the language. Line highlighting can be included in the code block by commenting `highlight-line`, or `highlight-start` followed by a `highlight-end`.

> 

Reviewer 2: i think we should also note when we include three backticks in the code then we should use one more backtick around the code - it takes a long while to find out how to style this use cases at github:

`````
````
```javascript
code
```
````
`````

Reviewer: Ooh, great idea. That does come up from time to time.

      ],
    },
  },
]
```

Line numbers and line highlighting can be added to code blocks as well, and is explained in detail in the [`gatsby-remark-prismjs` README](/packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/?=remark#optional-add-line-highlighting-styles).

## Styling components on Gatsbyjs.org with Theme-UI

Styles on the site are applied using [Theme-UI](https://theme-ui.com/), which allows for theming across the site based on design tokens (also called variables).

### Design tokens

Design tokens are used to consolidate the number of colors and style attributes that are applied to components throughout the site. By limiting the styles that can be applied, the site stays consistent with the guidelines for color, typography, spacing, etc.

Tables listing design tokens that are used on the site can be found in the [design guidelines](/guidelines/design-tokens/).

### The `sx` prop

The [`sx` prop](https://theme-ui.com/sx-prop) from Theme-UI allows you to access theme values to style elements and components, it should be used wherever possible. The prop is "enabled" by adding `theme-ui`'s [JSX pragma](https://theme-ui.com/jsx-pragma) at the top of a `js` file.

> It is still okay to directly import tokens, e.g. `mediaQueries` or `colors` directly from `www/src/gatsby-plugin-theme-ui` if it helps your specific use case — for example when global CSS is required, when passing theme values to other libraries or plugins, when authoring complex responsive styles, etc.

Reviewer 2: maybe direct link to the file?

```suggestion
It is still okay to directly import tokens, e.g. `mediaQueries` or `colors` directly from [`www/src/gatsby-plugin-theme-ui`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/www/src/gatsby-plugin-theme-ui/index.js) if it helps your specific use case — for example when global CSS is required, when passing theme values to other libraries or plugins, when authoring complex responsive styles, etc.
```
